feat: add splunkhec receiver (#3440)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.receiver.splunkhec.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.receiver.splunkhec/

> aliases:
>   - ../otelcol.receiver.splunkhec/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/otelcol.receiver.splunkhec/
> description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.splunkhec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.splunkhec
```

This is a new topic. It never existed at the location set in the  alias, so we don't need to add an alias.

> title: otelcol.receiver.splunkhec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
labels:
  stage: public-preview
  products:
    - oss
title: otelcol.receiver.splunkhec
```

Add the stage label and the OSS label

---

> <span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Public preview</span>
> 
> # otelcol.receiver.splunkhec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec`
```

The badge can be added as a metadata label element now.

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/public_preview.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` accepts events in the [Splunk HEC format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.0.5/Data/FormateventsforHTTPEventCollector) forwards them to other `otelcol.*` components. The receiver accepts data formatted as JSON HEC events under any path or as EOL separated log raw data if sent to the raw_path path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` accepts events in the [Splunk HEC format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.0.5/Data/FormateventsforHTTPEventCollector) forwards them to other `otelcol.*` components.
The receiver accepts data formatted as JSON HEC events under any path or as EOL separated log raw data if sent to the `raw_path` path.
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector `splunkhec` receiver.
Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy

> otelcol.receiver.splunkhec "LABEL" {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otelcol.receiver.splunkhec "<LABEL>" {
```

  output {
    metrics = [...]
    logs    = [...]
  }
}
```

> ## Arguments
> `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` supports the following arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Arguments

You can use the following arguments with `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec`:
```

| Name                       | Type                       | Description                                                                                                    | Default                                                    | Required |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |

> | `endpoint`                 | `string`                   | `host:port` to listen for traffic on.                                                                          | `"localhost:8088"`                                         | no       |
> | `max_request_body_size`    | `string`                   | Maximum request body size the server will allow.                                                               | `20MiB`                                                    | no       |
> | `include_metadata`         | `boolean`                  | Propagate incoming connection metadata to downstream consumers.                                                |                                                            | no       |
> | `compression_algorithms`   | `list(string)`             | A list of compression algorithms the server can accept.                                                        | `["", "gzip", "zstd", "zlib", "snappy", "deflate", "lz4"]` | no       |
> | `auth`                     | `capsule(otelcol.Handler)` | Handler from an `otelcol.auth` component to use for authenticating requests.                                   |                                                            | no       |
> | `raw_path`                 | `string`                   | The path accepting raw HEC events. Only applies when the receiver is used for logs.                            | `/services/collector/raw`                                  | no       |
> | `health_path`              | `string`                   | The path reporting health checks.                                                                              | `/services/collector/health`                               | no       |
> | `splitting`                | `string`                   | Defines the splitting strategy used by the receiver when ingesting raw events. Can be set to "line" or "none". | `"line"`                                                   | no       |
> | `access_token_passthrough` | `boolean`                  | If enabled perserves incomming access token as a attribute `com.splunk.hec.access_token`                       | `false`                                                    | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `access_token_passthrough` | `boolean`                  | If enabled perserves incomming access token as a attribute `com.splunk.hec.access_token`                       | `false`                                                    | no       |
| `auth`                     | `capsule(otelcol.Handler)` | Handler from an `otelcol.auth` component to use for authenticating requests.                                   |                                                            | no       |
| `compression_algorithms`   | `list(string)`             | A list of compression algorithms the server can accept.                                                        | `["", "gzip", "zstd", "zlib", "snappy", "deflate", "lz4"]` | no       |
| `endpoint`                 | `string`                   | `host:port` to listen for traffic on.                                                                          | `"localhost:8088"`                                         | no       |
| `health_path`              | `string`                   | The path reporting health checks.                                                                              | `/services/collector/health`                               | no       |
| `include_metadata`         | `boolean`                  | Propagate incoming connection metadata to downstream consumers.                                                |                                                            | no       |
| `max_request_body_size`    | `string`                   | Maximum request body size the server will allow.                                                               | `20MiB`                                                    | no       |
| `raw_path`                 | `string`                   | The path accepting raw HEC events. Only applies when the receiver is used for logs.                            | `/services/collector/raw`                                  | no       |
| `splitting`                | `string`                   | Defines the splitting strategy used by the receiver when ingesting raw events. Can be set to "line" or "none". | `"line"`                                                   | no       |
```

Sort rows

By default, `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` listens for HTTP connections on `localhost:8088`.
To expose the HTTP server to other machines on your network, configure `endpoint` with the IP address to listen on, or `0.0.0.0:8088` to listen on all network interfaces.

> If `access_token_passthrough` is enabled it will be preserved as a attribute `com.splunk.hec.access_token`. If logs or metrics are exported with `otelcol.exporter.splunkhec` it will check for this attribute and if present forward it with outgoing request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `access_token_passthrough` is enabled it will be preserved as a attribute `com.splunk.hec.access_token`.
If logs or metrics are exported with `otelcol.exporter.splunkhec` it will check for this attribute and if present forward it with outgoing request.
```

## Blocks

> The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
> `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following blocks with `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec`:
```

> | Hierarchy                                         | Block                               | Description                                                                | Required |
> | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------- |
> | tls                                               | [tls][]                             | Configures TLS for the HTTP server.                                        | no       |
> | cors                                              | [cors][]                            | Configures CORS for the HTTP server.                                       | no       |
> | hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs                        | [cors][]                            | Configures CORS for the HTTP server.                                       | no       |
> | debug_metrics                                     | [hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs][]      | Configures the metrics that this component generates to monitor its state. | no       |
> | output                                            | [output][]                          | Configures where to send received telemetry data.                          | yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Block                                                      | Description                                                                | Required |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| [`output`][output]                                         | Configures where to send received telemetry data.                          | yes      |
| [`cors`][cors]                                             | Configures CORS for the HTTP server.                                       | no       |
| [`hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs`][hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs] | Configures OpenTelemetry attributes from HEC metadata.                     | no       |
| [`debug_metrics`][debug_metrics]                           | Configures the metrics that this component generates to monitor its state. | no       |
| [`tls`][tls]                                               | Configures TLS for the HTTP server.                                        | no       |
```

Removed the Hierarchy column (Component docs are being updated to eliminate this column.
Added code format
Reworked the section linking and descriptions. Things looked incorrect in the original draft text.

> [tls]: #tls-block
> [cors]: #cors-block
> [debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics-block
> [output]: #output-block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[tls]: #tls
[cors]: #cors
[debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics
[output]: #output
```

We can drop the block from the titles.

> ### tls block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tls`
```

The `tls` block configures TLS settings used for a server.
If the `tls` block isn't provided, TLS isn't used for connections to the server.

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-tls-server-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### cors block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `cors`
```

The `cors` block configures CORS settings for an HTTP server.

The following arguments are supported:

> | Name              | Type           | Description                                              | Default                | Required |
> | ----------------- |----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|--------- |
> | `allowed_origins` | `list(string)` | Allowed values for the `Origin` header.                  |                        | no       |
> | `allowed_headers` | `list(string)` | Accepted headers from CORS requests.                     | `["X-Requested-With"]` | no       |
> | `max_age`         | `number`       | Configures the `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header. |                        | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name              | Type           | Description                                              | Default                | Required |
| ----------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- |
| `allowed_headers` | `list(string)` | Accepted headers from CORS requests.                     | `["X-Requested-With"]` | no       |
| `allowed_origins` | `list(string)` | Allowed values for the `Origin` header.                  |                        | no       |
| `max_age`         | `number`       | Configures the `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header. |                        | no       |
```

The `allowed_headers` specifies which headers are acceptable from a CORS request.
The following headers are always implicitly allowed:

* `Accept`
* `Accept-Language`
* `Content-Type`
* `Content-Language`

If `allowed_headers` includes `"*"`, all headers are permitted.

> ### hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs block
> The `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs` block configures otel attributes from hec metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs`

The `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs` block configures OpenTelemetry attributes from HEC metadata.
```

> | Name         | Type     | Description                                                   | Default                 | Required |
> | ------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------- |--------- |
> | `source`     | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the source field to a attribute.     | `com.splunk.source`     | no       |
> | `sourcetype` | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the sourcetype field to a attribute. | `com.splunk.sourcetype` | no       |
> | `index`      | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the index field to a attribute.      | `com.splunk.index`      | no       |
> | `host`       | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the host field to a attribute.       | `host.name`             | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name         | Type     | Description                                                   | Default                 | Required |
| ------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------- |--------- |
| `host`       | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the host field to a attribute.       | `host.name`             | no       |
| `index`      | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the index field to a attribute.      | `com.splunk.index`      | no       |
| `source`     | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the source field to a attribute.     | `com.splunk.source`     | no       |
| `sourcetype` | `string` | Specifies the mapping of the sourcetype field to a attribute. | `com.splunk.sourcetype` | no       |
```

Sort alphabetically

> ### debug_metrics block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `debug_metrics`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### output block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `output`

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Required</span>
```

| `metrics` | `list(otelcol.Consumer)` | List of consumers to send metrics to. | `[]`    | no       |

You must specify the `output` block, but all its arguments are optional.
By default, telemetry data is dropped.
Configure the `metrics` and `logs` arguments accordingly to send telemetry data to other components.

## Exported fields

`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` doesn't export any fields.

## Component health

`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.

## Example

This example forwards received telemetry through a batch processor before finally sending it to an OTLP-capable endpoint:

```alloy
otelcol.receiver.splunkhec "default" {
  output {
    logs    = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.processor.batch "default" {
  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
    traces  = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.exporter.otlp "default" {
  client {

>     endpoint = sys.env("OTLP_ENDPOINT")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    endpoint = sys.env("<OTLP_ENDPOINT>")
```

  }
}
```

## Enable authentication

You can create a `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` component that requires authentication for requests. This is useful for limiting who can push data to the server. 

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Not all OpenTelemetry Collector authentication plugins support receiver authentication.
Refer to the [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/<ALLOY_VERSION>/reference/components/otelcol/) for each `otelcol.auth.*` component to determine its compatibility.
{{< /admonition >}} 

```alloy
otelcol.receiver.splunkhec "default" {
  output {
    logs    = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
  }
  auth = otelcol.auth.basic.creds.handler
}

otelcol.auth.basic "creds" {

>     username = sys.env("USERNAME")
>     password = sys.env("PASSWORD")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    username = sys.env("<USERNAME>")
    password = sys.env("<PASSWORD>")
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.receiver.splunkhec/
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.splunkhec
labels:
  stage: public-preview
  products:
    - oss
title: otelcol.receiver.splunkhec
---

# `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/public_preview.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> `otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` accepts events in the [Splunk HEC format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.0.5/Data/FormateventsforHTTPEventCollector) forwards them to other `otelcol.*` components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`otelcol.receiver.splunkhec` accepts events in the [Splunk HEC format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.0.5/Data/FormateventsforHTTPEventCollector) and forwards them to other `otelcol.*` components.
```
